Updating README Documentation

The README contains "Matrix Code Overlay" documentation. Since the user wants to remove matrix
references, I'll delete that entire section and mention that it's deprecated. We might keep the code
support but not document it. Other documentation references "Matrix UI," but it seems unrelated. Given
the user’s context about theme render-wallpaper.sh and env vars, I’ll patch the scripts/theme/README.md
to remove references to "Matrix Code Overlay (Background)" and milk glass combinations. Let’s also check
for any remaining mentions in the theme.

Implementing Background Glass Effect

I need to implement a patch in scripts/theme/README.md to remove the section from "### Matrix Code
Overlay (Background)" to just before "### Optional: Circular Logo + Ring." The user wants guidance on
adding a glass effect to the background, ensuring the logo remains crisp. Our current script doesn't
allow excluding the logo from the blurred image, but I can suggest placing the glass panel below the
center. I'll detail using KASPAX_GLASS settings to create a glass background while keeping the logo
clear. Let's compute and provide that guidance!

Finding Workarounds for Glass Effect

The logo is centered, and my glass panel would cover the entire height if height equals H. To avoid
blurring the logo, I could suggest rendering the glass before the logo, but the current script doesn’t
support that directly.

For workarounds, Option A could involve using two glass panels—one for the top half and one for the
bottom—leaving a gap where the logo is, but that means running the script twice, which isn't ideal.
Option B might be disabling the logo ring, resizing the logo, and then placing the glass panel at the
bottom. This way, only the background remains blurred without affecting the logo or quote panel.

Tweaking the Script for Background Blur

The user wants a blurred background effect, likely under the whole background instead of just the quote
panel, which creates a frosted look. However, it seems they don't want the logo to be blurred, which
complicates things.

I’ll propose a minimal tweak to the script that changes the blur source to occur before the logo is
added. I can do this by saving a copy of the base background after creating it and then using that as
the blur source when building the glass panel. This way, the logo remains sharp while achieving the
desired effect.

Reordering Compositing Steps for Clarity

Alright, I need to ensure that the blurred background samples only the base content and that the logo
below remains crisp. Currently, the logo gets hidden by the blurred overlay when the panel is set to
opaque. The glass effect ideally should blur the background but keep the logo visible.

To achieve this, I’ll adjust the order of compositing in the script. I’ll store the base background,
create a blurred version, and then composite the glass panel. Finally, I’ll add the logo back on
top of the panel. This will keep the logo from being blurred, aligning with the user’s request while
maintaining minimal changes to the logic. Let’s patch!

Updating README and Patching

I need to update the README by removing the Matrix section and adding a note about avoiding the glass
covering the logo. I'll provide instructions for creating a full-screen glass background while keeping
the logo crisp. The GLASS variables should be configured as the user indicated; we should confirm our
code supports this.

With the new order, the logo renders on top of the glass, preventing any blurring. I'll implement the
patch and suggest using KASPAX_QUOTE=0 to disable the quote overlay if it's not desired, ensuring our
usage guidance is clear. Let's get these patches done!






codex
Next, I’ll patch the theme README to remove the Matrix section, and update the wallpaper script so the
glass blur applies to the background only (logo remains crisp).

✏️ Applying patch to 1 file (+40 -36)
  └ /home/kasperience/KaspaX/scripts/theme/render-wallpaper.sh (+40 -36)
    188   -# 2) Prepare logo (square resize), then optional circular mask and ring
    189   -# Compute logo size from scale (fallback to 20% if parsing fails)
    190   -LOGO_SIZE=$(awk -v W="$W" -v S="$LOGO_SCALE" 'BEGIN{ if(S+0==0){S=0.20}; printf "%d", W*S }')
    191   -LOGO_RES="$TMP_DIR/logo_resized.png"
    192   -"$IM" "$LOGO" -resize ${LOGO_SIZE}x${LOGO_SIZE}^ -gravity center -extent ${LOGO_SIZE}
x${LOGO_S
           IZE} "$LOGO_RES"
    194   -LOGO_FINAL="$LOGO_RES"
    195   -if [ "$LOGO_SHAPE" = "circle" ]; then
    196   -  MASK="$TMP_DIR/logo_mask.png"
    197   -  R=$(( LOGO_SIZE / 2 ))
    198   -  "$IM" -size ${LOGO_SIZE}x${LOGO_SIZE} xc:none -fill white -draw "circle ${R},${R} ${R},0"
"$
           MASK"
    199   -  if [ "$LOGO_FEATHER" != "0" ]; then
    200   -    "$IM" "$MASK" -filter Gaussian -blur 0x"$LOGO_FEATHER" "$MASK"
    201   -  fi
    202   -  LOGO_FINAL="$TMP_DIR/logo_circle.png"
    203   -  "$IM" "$LOGO_RES" "$MASK" -compose CopyOpacity -composite "$LOGO_FINAL"
    204   -fi
    188   +# 2) Save a copy of the pre-logo background for glass blur source
    189   +BASE_BG="$TMP_DIR/base_bg.png"
    190   +cp -f "$OUT" "$BASE_BG"
    206   -# Composite logo to center
    207   -"$IM" "$OUT" "$LOGO_FINAL" -gravity center -composite "$OUT"
    209   -# Optional ring overlay
    210   -if [ "$LOGO_SHAPE" = "circle" ] && [ "$RING_ENABLE" = "1" ]; then
    211   -  R=$(( LOGO_SIZE / 2 ))
    212   -  RING_IMG="$TMP_DIR/logo_ring.png"
    213   -  # draw ring slightly inset so it fully fits within the logo circle
    214   -  HALF_STROKE=$(( RING_WIDTH / 2 ))
    215   -  INNER=$(( R - HALF_STROKE - 1 ))
    216   -  if [ "$INNER" -lt 1 ]; then INNER=1; fi
    217   -  INNERX=$(( R + INNER ))
    218   -  "$IM" -size ${LOGO_SIZE}x${LOGO_SIZE} xc:none -stroke "$RING_COLOR" -strokewidth
"$RING_WIDT
           H" -fill none \
    219   -    -draw "circle ${R},${R} ${INNERX},${R}" "$RING_IMG"
    220   -  "$IM" "$OUT" "$RING_IMG" -gravity center -composite "$OUT"
    221   -fi
    192    # 3) Optional: milk-glass panel (blurred background + white translucent overlay)
    231   -  # Make a blurred copy of the whole background
    200   +  # Make a blurred copy of the pre-logo background so the logo stays crisp
    201      BLUR_IMG="$TMP_DIR/blur.png"
    233   -  "$IM" "$OUT" -filter Gaussian -blur 0x"$GLASS_BLUR" "$BLUR_IMG"
    202   +  "$IM" "$BASE_BG" -filter Gaussian -blur 0x"$GLASS_BLUR" "$BLUR_IMG"
    227   +# 4) Prepare logo (square resize), then optional circular mask and ring; composite AFTER
glass
    228   +# Compute logo size from scale (fallback to 20% if parsing fails)
    229   +LOGO_SIZE=$(awk -v W="$W" -v S="$LOGO_SCALE" 'BEGIN{ if(S+0==0){S=0.20}; printf "%d", W*S }')
    230   +LOGO_RES="$TMP_DIR/logo_resized.png"
    231   +"$IM" "$LOGO" -resize ${LOGO_SIZE}x${LOGO_SIZE}^ -gravity center -extent ${LOGO_SIZE}
x${LOGO_S
           IZE} "$LOGO_RES"
    233   +LOGO_FINAL="$LOGO_RES"
    234   +if [ "$LOGO_SHAPE" = "circle" ]; then
    235   +  MASK="$TMP_DIR/logo_mask.png"
    236   +  R=$(( LOGO_SIZE / 2 ))
    237   +  "$IM" -size ${LOGO_SIZE}x${LOGO_SIZE} xc:none -fill white -draw "circle ${R},${R} ${R},0"
"$
           MASK"
    238   +  if [ "$LOGO_FEATHER" != "0" ]; then
    239   +    "$IM" "$MASK" -filter Gaussian -blur 0x"$LOGO_FEATHER" "$MASK"
    240   +  fi
    241   +  LOGO_FINAL="$TMP_DIR/logo_circle.png"
    242   +  "$IM" "$LOGO_RES" "$MASK" -compose CopyOpacity -composite "$LOGO_FINAL"
    243   +fi
    245   +# Composite logo to center (after glass so it's not blurred)
    246   +"$IM" "$OUT" "$LOGO_FINAL" -gravity center -composite "$OUT"
    248   +# Optional ring overlay
    249   +if [ "$LOGO_SHAPE" = "circle" ] && [ "$RING_ENABLE" = "1" ]; then
    250   +  R=$(( LOGO_SIZE / 2 ))
    251   +  RING_IMG="$TMP_DIR/logo_ring.png"
    252   +  # draw ring slightly inset so it fully fits within the logo circle
    253   +  HALF_STROKE=$(( RING_WIDTH / 2 ))
    254   +  INNER=$(( R - HALF_STROKE - 1 ))
    255   +  if [ "$INNER" -lt 1 ]; then INNER=1; fi
    256   +  INNERX=$(( R + INNER ))
    257   +  "$IM" -size ${LOGO_SIZE}x${LOGO_SIZE} xc:none -stroke "$RING_COLOR" -strokewidth
"$RING_WIDT
           H" -fill none \
    258   +    -draw "circle ${R},${R} ${INNERX},${R}" "$RING_IMG"
    259   +  "$IM" "$OUT" "$RING_IMG" -gravity center -composite "$OUT"
    260   +fi
    262    # Optional: overlay a random quote centered at bottom


✓ Applied patch
  └ Success. Updated the following files:
    M scripts/theme/render-wallpaper.sh

Updating README.md

I need to update the scripts/theme/README.md by removing the Matrix section. I want to create a patch
that deletes everything from "### Matrix Code Overlay (Background)" through the "Advanced controls" and
"Tip" lines, ensuring I also remove any examples that combine it with other elements. Since there's a
duplicate "Output:" line, I'll leave that as it is. My focus is on creating a clean patch to eliminate
that entire section.

✏️ Applying patch to 1 file (+1 -29)
  └ /home/kasperience/KaspaX/scripts/theme/README.md (+1 -29)
    59    -### Matrix Code Overlay (Background)
    60    -Add a subtle Matrix-style code pattern behind the logo and glass. This is static (baked into
t
           he PNG) and is intended to be low-contrast so it doesn’t distract from content.
    61    -```
    62    -# Enable with defaults:
    63    -KASPAX_MATRIX=1 ./render-wallpaper.sh 1920x1080
    65    -# Tune look and intensity:
    66    -KASPAX_MATRIX=1 \
    67    -KASPAX_MATRIX_COLOR='#00ff88' \
    68    -KASPAX_MATRIX_ALPHA=12 \
    69    -KASPAX_MATRIX_POINT=16 \
    70    -KASPAX_MATRIX_TILE=320x320 \
    71    -KASPAX_MATRIX_DENSITY=45 \
    72    -KASPAX_MATRIX_BLUR=0.5 \
    73    -./render-wallpaper.sh 1920x1080
    75    -# Combine with milk-glass and quote (example 1280x800):
    76    -KASPAX_MATRIX=1 KASPAX_GLASS=1 KASPAX_GLASS_WIDTH=0.9 KASPAX_GLASS_HEIGHT=160 \
    77    -KASPAX_GLASS_MARGIN=56 KASPAX_GLASS_RADIUS=18 KASPAX_GLASS_ALPHA=10 \
    78    -KASPAX_QUOTE=1 KASPAX_QUOTE_SIZE=22 KASPAX_QUOTE_MARGIN=48 \
    79    -./render-wallpaper.sh 1280x800
    80    -```
    82    -Advanced controls:
    83    -- `KASPAX_MATRIX_FONT='DejaVu Sans Mono'` choose a font (monospace recommended).
    84    -- `KASPAX_MATRIX_CHARS='01|/\\*+'` change the character set (ASCII recommended).
    85    -- `KASPAX_MATRIX_JITTER=2` random pixel offset to break the grid (0–4).
    87    -Tip: If glyphs look blocky, increase `KASPAX_MATRIX_POINT` and lower `KASPAX_MATRIX_DENSITY`, 
           or pick a smoother font.
    59    +<!-- Matrix overlay documentation intentionally removed to simplify visuals. -->


✓ Applied patch
  └ Success. Updated the following files:
    M scripts/theme/README.md

thinking
Updating configuration details

I’ve made code and documentation changes, so now it’s time to update the plan tool and mark the steps
as complete. I’ll provide guidance on enabling the glass effect across the background using environment
variables. It's important to note how to avoid blurring the logo or quote, since the logo is composited
after the glass effect, keeping it sharp. Users can set various parameters if they want to adjust the
blur or background settings.

Clarifying background options

It looks like the script doesn't support custom background image files; instead, it uses a solid color
with a centered logo. The user mentioned downloading a matrix-like free image, which implies they want
to set a background separately. Since our script can't import this, I can suggest that they set their
downloaded image as wallpaper outside of the script. Let's stick to what they requested and focus on
removing matrix references and explaining how to add the glass effect!

Explaining the glass effect limitation

Okay, so the base of our setup is a solid color, which includes an optional teal tint. Blurring this
solid color doesn’t produce a visible effect, so if the user uses full-screen glass over it, they'll
just see a white translucent shape. They probably want to blur their own wallpaper, set by hyprpaper,
but our script only generates the wallpaper image. To really achieve a glass effect for the background,
an actual image or pattern is necessary to blur.

Suggesting background options

Since the user plans to download an image, they likely prefer to use it as wallpaper instead of relying
on the generated one. I can suggest they keep the glass panel small behind the quote or consider adding
a background texture input. However, they mainly asked how to add the glass effect to the background.
I'll clarify that with a flat-color background, the blur is invisible—using a textured image is key.
I'll provide two options: use their downloaded image directly or see if they want me to add support for
a background image path.




📋 Update plan [██████████] 3/3
  └ ✔ Search for 'matrix' references
    ✔ Patch docs to remove references
    ✔ Provide glass effect guidance

codex
All set. I removed the Matrix overlay from the theme docs and adjusted the wallpaper generator so the
glass effect blurs only the background (the logo stays crisp).

What changed

- Removed Matrix docs: Deleted the “Matrix Code Overlay (Background)” section from scripts/theme/
README.md.
- Glass behavior: Reordered scripts/theme/render-wallpaper.sh so the glass blur uses the pre-logo
background and the logo is composited after the glass. This keeps the logo sharp even if the glass
covers the center.

How to get a full‑background glass effect

- Command (your example, with quotes disabled so only the background is affected):
    - KASPAX_GLASS=1 KASPAX_GLASS_WIDTH=1 KASPAX_GLASS_HEIGHT=1080 KASPAX_GLASS_MARGIN=0
KASPAX_GLASS_RADIUS=18 KASPAX_GLASS_BLUR=1 KASPAX_GLASS_ALPHA=4 KASPAX_QUOTE=0 bash scripts/theme/
render-wallpaper.sh
- Notes:
    - Logo remains crisp: The script now renders the logo after the glass layer, so it won’t get
blurred.
    - Blur visibility: If the background is a flat color, blurring won’t be noticeable. To see a real
glass effect, use a textured/background image.

Tips for better results

- Reduce white haze: Lower KASPAX_GLASS_ALPHA (e.g., 6–15) for a subtle frosted look.
- Stronger blur: Increase KASPAX_GLASS_BLUR (e.g., 8–14) for more diffusion.
- Panel vs full‑screen: For a bottom “card” only, set KASPAX_GLASS_WIDTH=0.8 and a smaller
KASPAX_GLASS_HEIGHT (e.g., 160–240) with a nonzero KASPAX_GLASS_MARGIN.

About background images

- The generator currently uses a flat dark background. If you want the glass to meaningfully blur a
photo/texture:
    - Option A: Set your downloaded image directly in Hyprpaper and skip the generator.
    - Option B (I can add this): Extend render-wallpaper.sh to accept KASPAX_BG_IMAGE=/path/to/image and
use it as the base. Want me to add that?

If you want me to strip Matrix mentions from other app docs (e.g., comment-it prototype files), say the
word and I’ll prune those too.

▌can we use some default hyprland cypherpunk wallpapers to our theme but overlaying it with our glass
▌effect and quotes?
